Release Candidate: User Testing
Team Gaia


User 1: 55 year old mom who does not own a smart-phone
What you asked the user to do:
Try using the application and tell me what you are thinking. If you get stuck try to 
figure it out.

Description of what occurred:
She easily navigated through each of the features. She avoided pressing the help icon even 
when she was unsure about something. There were a lot of typos that I noticed when she was 
looking at the help menus. When a dialog pops up, she kept trying to press outside the dialog 
to close it, rather than press "okay". Since there is no way to look at everything you have 
rated, when she accidentally rated something she could not undo it. One of her favorite 
features was Try Something New because you get suggestions at the touch of a button.

What we learned about the app:
-It would have been nice if we implemented a feature that allows you to look at everything you 
have rated in case you want to change your ratings easily
-If a user does not know what a category is, it is not obvious to them that they should go to 
the help menu and see that they can hold down the category to get an explanation of what each 
category is
-Since search by categories looks exactly the same as the search by category on advanced 
search, you might forget which one you are looking at

User 2: 24 year old man, WSU alumni with business degree

What you asked users to do:
Explain what his thought process out loud and then use the app.

Description of what occurred:
He was a little confused on why he was prompted to rate drinks and wanted to rate drinks 
based on how they sounded rather than on ones he had already tried. He wanted more options 
for try something new rather than just five. He also wanted the 5 drinks on try something 
new to change so that he could see more options. The pictures of the glasses that the drinks 
come in were sometimes confusing because of size discrepancies. He wanted to know the 
category of the drink on the drink info page as well.

What we learned about the app:
-The glass pictures are hard to differentiate between and it is hard to tell the category 
of the drink on the drink info page. 
-We need to change the categories of the drinks to be more intuitive rather than "shaken 
or stirred". 
-It would have been nice if we would have implemented a "clear all" on the search features 
so that the user could reset their search.

User 3: 26 year old bartender
What you asked users to do:
Use the app and tell me what you think. First rate a bunch of drinks, 
then use the search features. Tell me if you notice any bugs or things you feel should be 
different.

Description of what occurred:
He used the app for a bit, first rating and favoriting several drinks. 
He then noticed that some of the drinks he rated in the new user dialogue were labeled 
as unrated. While using search by ingredient he complained that several of the ingredients 
were duplicates. He really liked the search by flavor option, stating that was the best 
feature of the app. He pointed out that a mojito is listed as herbal 5, and he thought 
it should be lowered. He complained that Try Something New keeps giving him the same drinks, 
he wanted it to change every time he pressed the button. He suggested being able to swipe 
a drink away to 'pass' on it, or somehow tell the app he doesn't want to be suggested that 
drink anymore.

What I learned about the app:
-Found a bug in the new user dialogue. 
-Noticed some duplicate ingredients that I hadn't previously. 
-Discovered a few flavor profiles that were inaccurate.

User 4: 22 year old Aerospace Engineer at UW, frequent alcohol drinker, cool Norwegian

What you asked the user to do:
 I explained why he might want to download the app and asked him to imagine he was using 
 it at a bar and think out loud. Then I shut up.

Description: 
He started by completing our new user activity by rating a few drinks after reading why 
it would be a good idea. Next, he went directly to "Try Something New" and selected 
Flaming Dr. Pepper (and was upset it doesn't actually contain Dr. Pepper.) 
He pretended to really like the drink and added it to favorites. 
After returning to the home screen (via the home button) he completed various 
searches and never ran into problems. During this time he never used Help button or 
removed anything from Favorites.
 Overall, he liked it! He suggested that the search buttons be more 
 consistent (they are different sizes) and would prefer if they were a lighter color. 
 His favorite search type was Search By Flavor because he thought it was a very cool 
 idea and fun to play with. He didn't like how the Flavor seek bars (on DrinkInfo) looked 
 like he could move them. He got excited by the idea that he could taste a drink them 
 modify its flavor profile but was really let down when this wasn't possible. 
 He'd also like to be able to remove a drink from favorite while on the DrinkInfo page.

What we learned about the app:
- We need to mention in the Welcome Dialog that the user's can press the Help button at any 
 time to learn how to use the page they're currently on. 
-We also have a couple fixed  to make, such as fixing typos, having the Results Page 
update a drink's rating after the user rates it on the DrinkInfo Page and pressed back, 
category icons need to be added to Advanced Search. 
-Also, we need to mention in the Welcome Dialog that predicted ratings are red stars and 
user ratings are gold.


User 5: 20 year old female, Drama Production major

What you asked the user to do:
I didn't say anything, just said to use the app.

Description of what occurred:
The first thing she did was open the app and say "Now what do I do?" I prompted her 
with "whatever you want" and she began opening different search functions. She 
started with Search By Flavors and looked for a boozy drink. The picture confused her 
for a second but she figured out its purpose quickly. Looking at the results her first 
reaction was "Your predictions aren't very good." (She hadn't rated anything yet) 
She looked at a few drinks and accidentally rated few of them. Next she went to Search By 
Ingredients and started playing around with that. She found a bug when searching the 
ingredients list but was getting the hang of the results layout. She started going down 
the list of results, rating drinks based off whether or not they sounded good or not. 
She repeated this process for the other different Searches, rating drinks based off of 
how good they sounded. She used the help button onced but didn't spend too much time on it. 
After 20 drinks, she made the comment that the predicted rating system was actually pretty 
good.

What I learned about the app:
-It's easy to accidentally rate something.
-The help text is a little overwhelming
-She didn't really know what to do with the app after a few minutes. 
Eventually she settled into rating drinks on how good they sounded
-Found bugs in advanced search 

What you changed as a result:
-We added a "toast" to the bottom of the search by category page the first time the 
user ever opens this page within the app to give them the hint that they can hold down 
on the category button to get a description of the category. 
-We  went over the help menus and fixed the typos.
-Category icons have been added to advance search.
-Drink icons have been added to the new user rating experience.
-Flavor profiles for drinks have been looked over and modified to better reflect that drink's 
actual flavor.
-Modified ingredients to remove duplicates
